End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) PC PRICER 
  
Instructions for the Provider Entry Screen 
1 
 
 
 
  
  
Column 1 
Column 2  
 
  
 
 
Column 3 
 
  
Provider Information  
 
  
• Provider Type:  
Required Field. For this field, enter “H” for hospital based facility or “I” for Independent facility.  
 
 • Geographical  location:  
Required field.  Enter the CBSA (Core Based Statistical Area) for the location of the facility.  
For claims with dates of service from 2005 through 2008 the MSA (Metropolitan Statistical Area) is required.  
 
 • Waived blended payment:  
Required field.    ESRD providers were given a one- time chance to opt out of the 4 year 
transitioning period  and  begin receiving full payment under the PPS (Prospective Payment System).  Enter “Y” if you 
opted out of the transitional payment and are receiving fully payment under the PPS.  Enter “N” if you did not opt out of 
the transitional payment and are receiving a blended payment of the old composite rate payment and the PPS.  
Column 1 
  

End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) PC PRICER 
  
Instructions for the Provider Entry Screen 
2 
 
  
• L
ow Volume Provider:     
Optional field.  
 ESRD providers meeting the requirements for the low volume provider designation should enter “Y” to receive the low 
volume adjustment.  All other providers may enter “N” or leave the field blank.  
 
• QIP Reduction Factor:     Optional field applicable to claims with dates of service on or after January 1, 2012.  
 ESRD providers that fail to meet or exceed a total performance score would qualify for an estimated payment reduction  
percentage (up to two percent) under the ESRD QIP.  Select the appropriate code for the applicable QIP Reduction factor.  
Defined as follows:  
    0.5% Payment Reduction ......... 1 
1.0% Payment Reduction ......... 2 
1.5% Payment Reduction ......... 3 
2.0% Payment Reduction ......... 4 
 
All other providers may leave the field blank. 
 
 
 
 
  
   Patient Information  
 
  
• Birthdate:    
Required field.  Enter the patient’s date of birth using two digits for month and day and four digits for the 
year (MM/DD/YYYY).  
 
  
• Weight in kilograms:  
 Required field.  Enter the patient’s weight in kilograms.  Entry of the decimal point is required.  
 
  
• Height in centimeters:  
Required field.  Enter the patient’s height in centimeters.  Entry of the decimal point is 
required.  
 
  
• Dialysis Start Date on Form 2728 within 120 days of line item date of service:  
Optional field. Enter “Y” for a new 
patient within the first 120 days of their initial start of dialysis for the onset of dialysis adjustment.  If not applicable, enter 
“N” or leave the field blank.  
 
  
• Unique Patient ID:  
Optional field.  The provider may enter any information to identify the patient for their own 
records or leave the field blank.  
 
  
Column 2 

End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) PC PRICER 
  
Instructions for the Provider Entry Screen 
3 
 
  
  Claim Information  
 
  
• Line Item date of service:  
Required field.  Enter the date of treatment using two digits for month and day and four 
digits for year (MM/DD/YYYY) 
 Note:  All treatments on the claim will receive the same reimbursement unless the patient was receiving the onset of 
dialysis adjustment and exhausted the 120 days during the billing period.  
 
  
• Condition Code:  
Required field.  Enter “73” to receive a rate with a training adjustment when the treatment included 
training.  Enter “74” for a home dialysis patient.  For all other in-facility treatments enter “NA”.  
 
 
• Revenue Code:  
Required field.  Select the appropriate revenue code for the treatment modality.  Defined as follows:  
 
  821  Hemodialysis  
831  Peritoneal  dialysis  
841  Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis (CAPD)  
851  Continuous Cycling Peritoneal Dialysis (CCPD)  
881  Ultrafiltration  
  
  
• Total Medicare Allowed Payment for outlier consideration:  
Optional field.  For calculation of a possible outlier 
payment, the provider enters the payment amount that would have been expected for separately billable services under the 
composite rate system.  Decimal point required.  
 
  
• Number of Dialysis Sessions in the billing period:  
Required field.  Enter the total number of dialysis sessions to be 
reported on the claim.  This field must be two digits (for example 3 sessions would be 03).  
 
  
• Comorbidities (Y/N):  
Optional field. To receive a rate including an adjustment for a comorbid condition, enter “Y” in 
the appropriate field.  When multiple comorbidities are applicable, only the highest paying comorbid adjustment is applied 
to the payment.  
 
  
  
When all entries are made, click on “Calculate Claim” on the bottom left corner of the screen.  
  
This PC PRICER does NOT interact with active beneficiary files or Medicare eligibility files.  
 Its accuracy is based on information you enter, and therefore actual payments may vary.  
  
Column 3